# 3.1 Testing for Function and Robustness

## Criteria To Assess

There is only 1 criterion in [1.5](../analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md) that are applicable to function and robustness

| Criterion | Description                                    |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| 13        | Does the program run smoothly without crashing |

### Criterion 13 - Running without crashing

The aim of testing criterion 13 is to ensure that the program runs smoothly without crashing or creating errors that results in the user not being able to continue using the program.

As the program is only available on my laptop, I was not able to test it on other hardware, however it is to be expected that hardware with lower processing power would take longer to process the user data. I, however, was able to test it on multiple browsers, such as Edge or Chrome and found that the program runs equally well across all modern web browsers. I only noticed a difference in processing time when switching to different WIFI networks. The processing time is heavily linked to WIFI speed, so in order to get the best processing time, a good internet connection is needed.

Another way I tested its robustness is by using it consistently for an extended period of time and entering outrageous numbers into the inputs. I found that it had consistent processing times when I after using it multiple times. When entering large numbers, the processing time was still very consistent and similar to that of smaller numbers.&#x20;

Overall when performing the function its designed to perform it operate very smoothly. Crashing seems almost non-existent, however those with slower internet will experience slower processing time, but that is to be expected with a web based program.

