# 4.1 Evaluation of Success Criteria



### UI

| Criterion | Description                      | When achieved                                         |
| --------- | -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | Easy to understand               | [cycle 7](../design-and-development/2.2.7-cycle-7.md) |
| 2         | Simplicity                       | [cycle 8](../design-and-development/2.2.8-cycle-8.md) |
| 3         | Site animations for user actions | [cycle 8](../design-and-development/2.2.8-cycle-8.md) |
| 4         | Easy to use                      | [cycle 7](../design-and-development/2.2.7-cycle-7.md) |
| 5         | Pleasant to use                  | [cycle 8](../design-and-development/2.2.8-cycle-8.md) |



### Functionality

| Criterion | Description         | When achieved                                         |
| --------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| 6         | Order customisation | [cycle 7](../design-and-development/2.2.7-cycle-7.md) |
| 7         | Money made          | [cycle 7](../design-and-development/2.2.7-cycle-7.md) |
| 8         | Multiple stock      | [cycle 8](../design-and-development/2.2.8-cycle-8.md) |
| 9         | Market management   |                                                       |
| 10        | Algorithm           | [cycle 2](../design-and-development/2.2.2-cycle-2.md) |
| 11        | timeframe           | [cycle 4](../design-and-development/2.2.4-cycle-4.md) |
| 12        | Doesn't reset       | [cycle 6](../design-and-development/2.2.6-cycle-6.md) |

### Criterion 1 - fully met

Criterion 1 has been met fully by my program. The main feature of this was mostly in the wording of the data entry and any additional resources that aided in understanding. This was important as the correct data must be entered in order for the program to work. However there are counter measures in place, so in case of wrong entry there are addition explanations of the correct data to be entered.

### Criterion 2 - fully met

The core features and the features the user interacts with are all as simple as they can be. The website includes the bare minimum data entries required for the program to run. This significantly reduced the effort required to use the website, making the overall experience much simpler

### Criterion 3 - partially met

I was able to implement some basic animations, specifically to the button and data entry points. However, I would have liked to implement a few more, specifically when you submit user data. The current issue is that it feels a little janky, and an animation is required to smooth it out. The reason behind this not being implemented was down to priorities. At the time I had to focus on the core functionality of the website, so optional additions took a back seat. In future development, I would prioritise implementing some form of animation. Possibly a loading wheel, which would be very noticeable for those on slower internet connection. Customising it to make a bit fun could also be a way to draw the users attention away from the loading time. Another option may be some slideshow pop up animation for the text for the money made.

### Criterion 4 - fully met

This criterion has been fully met. This is largely an extension of the simplicity criterion. This is because ease of use is often related to simplicity. Therefore this success can be attributed to all features on the UI. It was prioritised to make the frontend of the website easy to use for anyone, and I believe this has been achieved.

### Criterion 5 - partially met

The reason I say partially met is because pleasantness of use is something that is subjective. For me personally the website was very pleasant to use, however most people I got to test it said there was room for improvement. This was likely due to the fact that few people saw the program before it was put out for testing. This is evident by the chart below:

In future development, it would be beneficial to consult with more people before implementing the UI. I can use that user feedback to implement new features into the frontend such as greater customisation of the website page (such as a dark mode) which would improve overall user experience.

### Criterion 6 - fully met

The user is able to customise the stock name, number of stocks, and timeframe, which were all necessary features to implement. I feel these inputs give a good balance of what is necessary to make a trade, and the amount of user input required. However in future development it may be worth updating the customisation depending on how the backtrader framework progresses.

### Criterion 7 - partially met

After submitting the user data, the program successfully returns the amount of money you made. This is in big, clear, bold letters. However there are slight problems with how the text is returned in some instances. This was not picked up on due to the completion of this feature being late into the development stage. Therefore, in future development, I would implement a function that removes decimal places from a float variable. This would prevent more than two decimal places being displayed by the program which takes up unnecessary screen space. In addition to this, I would implement logic that dictates that when you loose money, the text would change from "you made" to "you lost". At the moment it stays as "you made" even if you loose money.

### Criterion 8 - not met

Whilst there are three stocks available to simulate, this is no where near the amount I wanted in the website. I believe this was largely down to a misunderstanding of the features of certain frameworks. Therefore I was unable to find a framework that allowed me to implement many stocks into the program that was also compatible with my trading algorithm. In future development, it is an absolute priority to find a framework, or a feature within the current framework, that can be used to implement many more different stocks. Making this change would significantly improve the level of customisation in the website and therefore increase user engagement with the website.

### Criterion 9 - not met

Not meeting this criteria was a huge loss for me. When initially designing the website a priority was to have a search feature where you could search for different stocks and display key information about them. However this feature was over shadowed by errors I had with the initial framework. As a result, a different framework had to be used in order to make the program work. in future development, this feature must be implemented. I would use the current framework as it does have a live trading feature and I would find a way around Wi-Fi barriers on the current network. However after its implementation, I should see significant improvements in the user experience as this new feature would add another level of usefulness to the website.

### Criterion 10 - fully met

I was very pleased to see that the algorithm I implemented works as intended. Whilst simple, it offers good results in most cases and runs very efficiently with no crashes. Its simplicity also allows for improvement, with plenty of addition features that can be easily implemented into the existing algorithm.

### Criterion 11 - partially met

It was intended that the stocks be simulated on historical data as live data would be reserved for criterion 9. In this sense the criterion was met, however, the historical data in use is not adequate to fully simulate the trades as it only goes to 2014. It was possible to implement dates to present however this required an unblocked Wi-Fi connection. In future development this would be something I look to overcome. I would implement the feature into the algorithm and it would draw data from Yahoo's website so I don't need to use CSV files. This feature would greatly improve the accuracy of the results achieved by the algorithm.

### Criterion 12 - fully met

This feature refers to after you've clicked submit. The user data is processed and the money made is returned. After this you can change inputs as many times as you want without having to reload the page. In addition to this, if you do decide to reload the page, it returns to the initial URL. There is also a warning when doing this so if you've done it by accident, you can still cancel the reload.
