# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* **Quality of animations -** at the moment there are very simple animations in place on some parts of the website. I definitely think adding more to the website would make the overall user experience much better.
* **Pleasantness to use -** I would say that the website is pleasant to use however the public opinion seems to be more mixed. I would certainly like to consult with others in order to make the user experience as pleasant as possible.
* **Simplify the money returned -** at the moment the money returned to the screen is either a decimal of incorrectly formatted (doesn't match the text before it). This for me is a must fix in order to simplify the website.
* **Only three stocks simulated -** at the moment I only have three stocks simulated. This is not enough and would like to add many more. Ideally finding a way to connect it to the web so you can just pull data from the web.
* **No live trading -** at the moment, the website does not include live stock simulation. This is a huge downside and this feature is definitely something I will explore implementing into my website. It would hugely increase the users engagement with the website.
* **Expand the testing data to present day -** the historical data used at the moment only goes up to 2014. I would like to extend this to the present day in order to make the website more comprehensive.

## Maintenance

Maintenance on the website will depend on the complexity and scale of ant features I would like to add or improve. It would also depends on how far a website like this is able to go. It would be best to continue using flask to load my webpage as the algorithm will remain in python. However there is certainly room for small improvements to be made whilst I'm the only developer.&#x20;

However as more complex features are added then a partner may be necessary to help maintain those features. These features would be long term and would be aimed at improving the overall quality of the website.

#### Short term maintenance

Short term maintenance would focus on bugs and inconveniences within the website that were discovered by either myself or another user testing the program. These can be changed quite easily so should be done as soon as possible. Any changes made in the short term will be less about changing the core functionality of the game and more about making sure existing features are working efficiently and without problems.

Due to most of these changes being short and simple, such as better animations or decimal cap on money, addressing these quickly will be important to making progress in the project. Core functionality must be perfect before any new features can be added.

#### Long term maintenance

Any long term maintenance should involve new and improved features and other aims that expand on the core functionality.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

* Animations -> new animations need to be added to the website along with improving some of the existing ones as they are currently a bit bland or require an animation. This can be done with basically a coupe more lines of code in the css file, using the classes to add effects to certain tags.
* Pleasant to use -> Whilst this is not necessarily a change that needs to be made, it is something I want to consult with others on. I would sit down with users and get a face to face opinion on how they would improve the website. These changes can then be implemented quite easily and would hopefully lead to improvements in user engagement
* Simplify money returned -> This is an obvious change. A decimal cap needs to be added to the money returned section so it doesn't return a massive decimal on some occasions. This can be done by using a round function on the float value which would limit it to 2 decimal places. This would simplify the website and free up a lot of space.

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

* Simulate more stocks -> in the future I would like to implement many more stocks to simulate, possibly every stock on the market. At the moment I have to use CSV files for any stock information which talk about in [cycle 4](../design-and-development/2.2.4-cycle-4.md). I added two more CSV files in during the development however it needs to be more. I plan on using a online service provided by Backtrader to pull stocks directly from Yahoos online service, meaning I would have access to all stocks on Yahoo finance. This would hugely increase the usefulness of the website, making it more viable.
* Expand information available -> I would like to add this pretty soon. Not necessarily live trading but being able to access live data about specific stocks. I would use Backtrader's new live trading library and pull data from specific stocks to show users so they can get an understanding of how its performing. This would be a very useful tool and would greatly improve viability of the website.
* Live trading -> this would mean using the above mentioned Backtrader live trading. This would give me access to a sandbox environment which would allow me to implement short period trading (buying and selling over short periods of time). The great thing about a sandbox is that you have room to experiment and gain experience of the risks of trading. This feature is ultimately the main feature I would like to implement as it would provide huge improvements to user engagement.
