# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualization

Abstraction is an important principle in computer science and is the process of removing excessive details to reach a representation of a problem that consists of only the key features. It frequently involves analysing what is relevant to the problem and what is irrelevant. I will use abstraction in the project when:

* Displaying analytics - I removing many of the complex and largely unnecessary figures, I will create a more simple environment without the wide range of complexities which will only dampen the user experience. Some of these analytics are only necessary for those looking to make a living off of trading.
* Site design - the design of the site is going to focus on the core mechanics. This includes easy to read text with no fancy font, basic animations (no need for flair) and a simple to use navigation system. All this will contribute to a simplified user experience which should help enhance understandability.&#x20;

## Thinking Ahead

Thinking ahead is very important in creating a programmed solution, especially in a time constrained situation such as the one we are creating this project. It involves thinking ahead about what the core components are that the project will be made of. In doing so you allow yourself to identify any problems that may arise and any solutions that can be used to make these problems as smooth as possible. This could involves setting these problems out in there most basic form and setting preconditions for different sub routines.

For me personally, the language and style in which I am going to make the project is important to think about. I am going to my project in C# as it is a language a have a large amount interest in. I will specifically be using the .net library to develop the program. This will allow me to use multiple languages in my program however the main one will be C#. Much of the programming will therefore be done in Visual Studio 2022 which is an IDE which will allow me to develop run and debug my code in one place.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

Thinking procedurally involves making the task of writing a program much simpler by breaking it down into smaller more manageable tasks. These are easier to understand and, therefore, easier to design. As humans we are not built to understand complex problems so using this method allows us to be able to comprehend the massive problems in the form of multiple smaller problems. By using this approach step by step approach it allows me to keep tracks of my progress more easily therefore making the development process much easier and making it easier to check of criteria.

## Thinking Logically

Thinking logically is important in the development process of any program. Thinking logically means I can create a more detailed and polished app for the user, ensuring that I use the most logical solution to any problem I may find based on what the user would expect. This can be done by limiting the number of possible solutions, making it easier to implement the most logical solution. This type of logical thinking can be especially useful in the [search feature](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#market-management). When the user searches for a share I can use criteria such as:

* Value of the share - this will shows shares that are most commonly bought
* Trending shares - shares the have had the largest increase in value recently
* Most searched for shares - over popular shares to invest in

All these criteria are based on what the user would logically be looking for. They are more likely to be searching for AAPL than some random obscure stock that also begins with 'A'.

## Thinking Concurrently

Concurrent thinking is the process of completing more than one task in a given time period. However, this doesn't always mean you have to be working on multiple tasks at once. Concurrent thinking allows you to spot patterns and parts of problems where concurrency can be applied, therefore speeding up processes. This can be incredibly use when:

* The PC is going to have to process the actual algorithm that is monitoring the market data. This needs to be happening constantly so enough space must be cleared in the CPU to run this at all times
* The user is going to want multitask on the app so process must run concurrently in order for the site to function as intended. This must be though of in the programming process.
* Certain data is not required costantly and would have better performace if it was pulled when needed.
